
Homework Description
In this homework, you will implement a song playlist. “Playlist” will be a list of “Song” elements. You have to implement the “Playlist” class as a Doubly Circular Linked List (DCLL). Song class and Main class are already provided for you. You do not need to implement anything for those classes. They are straightforward classes, but before you start writing your code, make sure that you understand them correctly. You will implement several methods in the Playlist class. Then we will test your methods one by one, as you can see from the main class.If all of your methods are working fine you should see an output match from Github’s Autograding.
Methods that you will implement are insertToEnd(), insertToIndex(), removeSong(), move() and reverseSequence() . They are all explained below. Node class and displayList method are already provided for you, do not make changes for these two classes. You can define additional helper methods in the Playlist class if you want.
insertToEnd(Song new_song): Add a new song element to the end of the DCLL. Notice that if the DCLL is empty, this new_song will be our first song. If new_song is null, throw a NullPointerException with the message “Null song entry!”.
insertToIndex(Song new_song, int index): Add a new song element to the given index of the DCLL. Our DCLL has 1-based indexing, which means the first Node has an index of 1. When we call this method with one index we will add a song to the very first position. Index values need to be in the range of 1 to the length of the DCLL plus one. Otherwise, index value is not a valid value, and we will not perform any operations on the list. When the index value is the length of the DCLL plus one, our method will operate just like insertToEnd. Notice that if our DCLL is empty, we will only perform this operation when the index is one. If new_song is null, throw a NullPointerException with the message “Null song entry!”.
removeSong(String song_name): Given the name of the song, remove it from the Playlist. If there is no such song, do not do anything.
move(String song_name, int move_num ): Given the name of the song, move it to the front by a given amount. We will not be moving in the other direction so that move_num cannot be negative. We also will not be passing beyond the head Node with this operation so that move_num cannot be greater than the distance of the given song to the head node. For those cases do not perform any operations on the DCLL. To sum up, with this method, our node will either get closer to the head node or become the head node itself. For an invalid move_num or a song_name that does not exist in the DCLL, we will not perform any operations.
reverseSequence(int first_ind, int second_ind): Given two indices revert the sequence of nodes between them. For any of the following cases do not perform any operations. If first_ind
is greater than or equal to second_ind, first_ind is smaller than one, second_ind is greater than the index of the tail and DCLL is empty. Remember that our DCLL has 1-based indexing. Figure 1 below is a simple demonstration of this method with given indices as one and four.
